# Client_Server_Application
Implementation of Client Sever Application in Python including echo client server

## Problem Statement:
Please refer [this link](https://github.com/Anupam0401/Client_Server_Application/blob/main/Assignment_3%20Socket_Programming.pdf) to view the questions of the problem.

***A detailed explanation of the code and implementations can be [found here](https://github.com/Anupam0401/Client_Server_Application/blob/main/11940160_Anupam_Assignment%203.pdf)***

## Goal of the Assignment: 
**Create your own client server application 
using socket programming.**

- **Part1-** ***Extending Echo Client/Server for network analysis***:
  -  Creation of **UDP echo client and server** application to measure *round trip time* between client and server (similar to “ping” command)
  - The client creates a UDP socket and send echo packets to server at a given interval, number of echo messages, and given packet size which is the input to the application. On reception of the packet, server sends the packet back to the client. 

  - The second part of the Part 1 creates and **iPerf** like application using the echo client server implemented in the first part above.
  - In this, we reduce the interval between two consecutive UDP echo packets generated by client to increase the number of echo packets sent from client for a given packet size.
  - Also, we calculate the the throughput and average delay observed every one second and plot the observed throughput and average delay.


- **Part2-** ***Extend Echo Client/Server and create your own client server application***:
  -  Added two features to the echo client server. The features added are:
    * Interactive Messaging
    * File Viewer

- **Part3-** ***Making Echo Client/Server “protocol Independent”***:
  - Making the echo client server created in Part protocol independent i.e., works for both IPv4 and IPv6.
